README.md, before:

# mtg

Magical programs 🪄✨ A project to help manage my collection of Magic: the Gathering cards.

There are many great scanner and collection management apps out there (so far I've scanned ~2700 cards with TCGPlayer's iOS app, so I started with that format). I created this so that I can fully own the data about my cards without having to create an account with a service that may disappear or change business models at any time (the closest to my ideal that I've seen so far is Lion's Eye that stores data in iCloud). Usually, there is some specific functionality that may exist in one but not another. Here, I can create any functionality I think of.

# Details

`make init` to start. So far just clones the submodules, which are Swift packages integrated from their local paths. I had to fork [Progress.swift](https://github.com/jkandzi/Progress.swift) to fix an [off-by-one error](https://github.com/jkandzi/Progress.swift/pull/12).

There are currently two tools: 
- `mtg-cli` manages the card collection
- `scryfall-local` downloads and serves Scryfall bulk data files to avoid making lots of individual requests to their web server

I keep the original TCGPlayer CSVs checked in here, along with the managed CSVs. `./reprocess-all-inputs.sh` will run the tools for all the different card scans I've done so far, roughly in the same discrete sets of scans I've done, which demonstrates how the programs work.

## `mtg-cli`

The collection is contained in multiple CSV files:
- base list of stored collection not currently in use
- a list for each constructed deck

These are stored at the selected managed location as follows:
```
.
├── collection.csv
└── decks/
    ├── fae dominion.csv
    ├── sliver swarm.cs
    └── retired/
        ├── wilds of eldraine draft 1.csv
        ├── wilds of eldraine draft 2.csv
        └── murder at karlov manor prerelease.csv
    
```

```
$> mtg-cli -h

OVERVIEW: Take a CSV file from a card scanner app like TCGPlayer and
incorporate the cards it describes into a database of cards describing a base
collection and any number of constructed decks. Cards in constructed decks are
not duplicated in the base collection.

USAGE: mtg [--migrate] [--add-to-collection] [--remove-from-collection <remove-from-collection>] [--add-to-deck <add-to-deck>] [--move-to-deck-from-collection <move-to-deck-from-collection>] [--move-to-collection-from-deck <move-to-collection-from-deck>] [--collection-path <collection-path>] [--backup-files-before-modifying] [--scryfall-data-dump-path <scryfall-data-dump-path>] [--retire-deck <retire-deck>] [--retire] [<input-path>]

ARGUMENTS:
  <input-path>            A path to a CSV file or directories containing CSV
                          files that contain cards to process according to the
                          specified options.

OPTIONS:
  --migrate               Migrate the existing managed CSVs to include any new
                          features developed after they were generated.
  --add-to-collection     Add the cards in the input CSV to the base collection.
  --remove-from-collection <remove-from-collection>
                          Remove the cards in the input CSV from the base
                          collection. You may want to do this if you've sold
                          the cards. (default: false)
  --add-to-deck <add-to-deck>
                          Add new cards not already in the base collection
                          directly to a deck.
  --move-to-deck-from-collection <move-to-deck-from-collection>
                          Move the cards from the base collection to a deck. If
                          the card doesn't already exist in the collection, its
                          record will be "created" in the deck.
  --move-to-collection-from-deck <move-to-collection-from-deck>
                          Remove the cards from the specified deck and place
                          them in the base collection.
  --collection-path <collection-path>
                          Custom location of the managed CSV files. (default: .)
  --backup-files-before-modifying
                          Create backup files before modifying any managed CSV
                          file.
  --scryfall-data-dump-path <scryfall-data-dump-path>
                          Location of Scryfall data dump file.
  --retire-deck <retire-deck>
                          Retired a deck: keep its list, but move its cards
                          back into the collection.
  --retire                When adding cards to a deck, also retire that deck
  -h, --help              Show help information.

```

## `scryfall-local`

Card data is imported from Scryfall using their [bulk data downloads](https://scryfall.com/docs/api/bulk-data). The `scryfall-local` tool can download these and then serve them locally via a HTTP server for `mtg-cli` to request the card info from.

```
$> scryfall-local -h
 
OVERVIEW: Manage and use local Scryfall bulk data files to query for card
information.

USAGE: scryfall-local <subcommand>

OPTIONS:
  -h, --help              Show help information.

SUBCOMMANDS:
  serve                   Run a local HTTP server that serves requests into a
                          Scryfall bulk data JSON file.
  download                Manage local downloads of Scryfall bulk data.

  See 'scryfall-local help <subcommand>' for detailed help.

```

# Features/TODO

- [x] Ingest a CSV from the TCGPlayer iOS app containing scanned cards
- Given input CSV, perform any combination of operations:
    - [ ] base list
        - [x] appending
        - [x] subtracting
    - [ ] constructed deck
        - [ ] Change to keeping decks tracked in the one collection.csv with a new column for "Deck name"?
        - [x] appending
        - [x] subtracting
        - sideboards
            - [ ] appending
            - [ ] subtracting
        - [x] Deck retirement: move the cards back into collection, but keep the deck list in a separate area that can be excluded from the rest of searches, like in `/decks/retired/<deck-name>.csv` (both a `--retire-deck` option is provided for direct action on a deck, and a `--retire` flag is provided that will work with `--add-to-deck` for immediate retirement of the deck from the input list)
        - Deck building features
            - [ ] Combo searches using Scryfall `related_card`:`combo_piece`
            - [ ] Given a deck list, determine which cards are already owned in the collection and other decks
            - [ ] Track history of deck edits
            - [ ] Ratio requests: build a deck out of current cards on hand with X% land, Y% creatures, Z% enchantments etc, ranked by edhrec ranks
            - [ ] Mana curve analysis
            - [ ] Keyword requests: evasion, ramp, go-wide, aggro, tempo, control, etc 
            - [ ] Format legality
    - [x] moving cards from one list to another (which is really just subtracting from one and appending to another)
    - [ ] Wishlists
        - [ ] generate report of current price outlays, per set/printing, constrained by condition, sorted by price, with links
        - [ ] Search for upcoming reprints–helpful with very expensive/old cards
            - Actually, this would be an interesting query to run for each new set coming out to see what could shift or what the chase cards could be
        - [ ] generate bulk data entry for TCGPlayer shopping
- Incorporate information from other card info sources:
    - [x] Scryfall API 
    - [x] Scryfall bulk data download
        - [x] actually, _only_ support bulk data download, don't even use the network API
        - [ ] migrations should update scryfall data that is out of date in the managed collection after a new bulk data download
        - [x] put it behind a local HTTP server so it doesn't have to be decoded on every invocation of the CLI
            - [ ] automatically start the HTTP server from `mtg-cli` if it's not already running?
            - [x] automate downloading bulk data dumps
            - [ ] automatically determine if local data is out of date and automatically download a newer version of it before spinning up the HTTP server (or even while it's running if it's daemonized?)
    - [ ] personal notes and tags/keywords
- [x] Allow multiple input CSVs
    - [x] Actually, don't do this. only allow one csv or one directory. this allows making the path argument optional, for operations that don't need a path argument, like `--migrate`
- [x] Handle folders of CSVs to process
- [x] Custom location of managed CSVs
- Translating between different services' card list formats
    - Export to CSV formats for other services/apps:
        - [ ] lion's eye iOS app
        - [ ] moxfield
        - [ ] archidekt
        - [ ] mtggoldfish
        - [ ] mtgdecks
        - [ ] edhrec
        - [ ] deckbox
        - [ ] tappedout
        - [ ] UrzaGatherer
    - Import
        - [ ] collectr
        - [ ] dragon shield mtg scanner
        - [ ] tcgfish
        - [ ] card binder
        - [ ] card castle 
        - [ ] moxfield exports, e.g.
            ```
            1 Alela, Cunning Conqueror (WOC) 3 *F*
            1 Arcane Denial (WOC) 84
            ```
- [x] Consolidate counts of duplicate entries (happens if you get the same card again later and scan it again)
    - [x] fix this, it only consolidates the current input, but needs to include previously recorded cards
- [x] Sort the rows in the CSV files by card name for better git diffing
    
## WONTDO

- Card search through base and constructed lists 
    - use [`ag`](https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher)/[`fzf`](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf)/[`yq`](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq)/[`sqlite`](https://stackoverflow.com/a/24582022) directly with the CSV files

Commit message:

fix decoding rfc-compliant csv fields with inner quoted strings; add more cards from collection

README.md, after:

# mtg

Magical programs 🪄✨ A project to help manage my collection of Magic: the Gathering cards.

There are many great scanner and collection management apps out there (so far I've scanned ~2700 cards with TCGPlayer's iOS app, so I started with that format). I created this so that I can fully own the data about my cards without having to create an account with a service that may disappear or change business models at any time (the closest to my ideal that I've seen so far is Lion's Eye that stores data in iCloud). Usually, there is some specific functionality that may exist in one but not another. Here, I can create any functionality I think of.

# Details

`make init` to start. So far just clones the submodules, which are Swift packages integrated from their local paths. I had to fork [Progress.swift](https://github.com/jkandzi/Progress.swift) to fix an [off-by-one error](https://github.com/jkandzi/Progress.swift/pull/12).

There are currently two tools: 
- `mtg-cli` manages the card collection
- `scryfall-local` downloads and serves Scryfall bulk data files to avoid making lots of individual requests to their web server

I keep the original TCGPlayer CSVs checked in here, along with the managed CSVs. `./reprocess-all-inputs.sh` will run the tools for all the different card scans I've done so far, roughly in the same discrete sets of scans I've done, which demonstrates how the programs work.

## `mtg-cli`

The collection is contained in multiple CSV files:
- base list of stored collection not currently in use
- a list for each constructed deck

These are stored at the selected managed location as follows:
```
.
├── collection.csv
└── decks/
    ├── fae dominion.csv
    ├── sliver swarm.cs
    └── retired/
        ├── wilds of eldraine draft 1.csv
        ├── wilds of eldraine draft 2.csv
        └── murder at karlov manor prerelease.csv
    
```

```
$> mtg-cli -h

OVERVIEW: Take a CSV file from a card scanner app like TCGPlayer and
incorporate the cards it describes into a database of cards describing a base
collection and any number of constructed decks. Cards in constructed decks are
not duplicated in the base collection.

USAGE: mtg [--migrate] [--add-to-collection] [--remove-from-collection <remove-from-collection>] [--add-to-deck <add-to-deck>] [--move-to-deck-from-collection <move-to-deck-from-collection>] [--move-to-collection-from-deck <move-to-collection-from-deck>] [--collection-path <collection-path>] [--backup-files-before-modifying] [--scryfall-data-dump-path <scryfall-data-dump-path>] [--retire-deck <retire-deck>] [--retire] [<input-path>]

ARGUMENTS:
  <input-path>            A path to a CSV file or directories containing CSV
                          files that contain cards to process according to the
                          specified options.

OPTIONS:
  --migrate               Migrate the existing managed CSVs to include any new
                          features developed after they were generated.
  --add-to-collection     Add the cards in the input CSV to the base collection.
  --remove-from-collection <remove-from-collection>
                          Remove the cards in the input CSV from the base
                          collection. You may want to do this if you've sold
                          the cards. (default: false)
  --add-to-deck <add-to-deck>
                          Add new cards not already in the base collection
                          directly to a deck.
  --move-to-deck-from-collection <move-to-deck-from-collection>
                          Move the cards from the base collection to a deck. If
                          the card doesn't already exist in the collection, its
                          record will be "created" in the deck.
  --move-to-collection-from-deck <move-to-collection-from-deck>
                          Remove the cards from the specified deck and place
                          them in the base collection.
  --collection-path <collection-path>
                          Custom location of the managed CSV files. (default: .)
  --backup-files-before-modifying
                          Create backup files before modifying any managed CSV
                          file.
  --scryfall-data-dump-path <scryfall-data-dump-path>
                          Location of Scryfall data dump file.
  --retire-deck <retire-deck>
                          Retired a deck: keep its list, but move its cards
                          back into the collection.
  --retire                When adding cards to a deck, also retire that deck
  -h, --help              Show help information.

```

## `scryfall-local`

Card data is imported from Scryfall using their [bulk data downloads](https://scryfall.com/docs/api/bulk-data). The `scryfall-local` tool can download these and then serve them locally via a HTTP server for `mtg-cli` to request the card info from.

```
$> scryfall-local -h
 
OVERVIEW: Manage and use local Scryfall bulk data files to query for card
information.

USAGE: scryfall-local <subcommand>

OPTIONS:
  -h, --help              Show help information.

SUBCOMMANDS:
  serve                   Run a local HTTP server that serves requests into a
                          Scryfall bulk data JSON file.
  download                Manage local downloads of Scryfall bulk data.

  See 'scryfall-local help <subcommand>' for detailed help.

```

# Features/TODO

- [x] Ingest a CSV from the TCGPlayer iOS app containing scanned cards
- Given input CSV, perform any combination of operations:
    - [ ] base list
        - [x] appending
        - [x] subtracting
    - [ ] constructed deck
        - [ ] Change to keeping decks tracked in the one collection.csv with a new column for "Deck name"?
        - [x] appending
        - [x] subtracting
        - sideboards
            - [ ] appending
            - [ ] subtracting
        - [x] Deck retirement: move the cards back into collection, but keep the deck list in a separate area that can be excluded from the rest of searches, like in `/decks/retired/<deck-name>.csv` (both a `--retire-deck` option is provided for direct action on a deck, and a `--retire` flag is provided that will work with `--add-to-deck` for immediate retirement of the deck from the input list)
        - Deck building features
            - [ ] Combo searches using Scryfall `related_card`:`combo_piece`
            - [ ] Given a deck list, determine which cards are already owned in the collection and other decks
            - [ ] Track history of deck edits
            - [ ] Ratio requests: build a deck out of current cards on hand with X% land, Y% creatures, Z% enchantments etc, ranked by edhrec ranks
            - [ ] Mana curve analysis
            - [ ] Keyword requests: evasion, ramp, go-wide, aggro, tempo, control, etc 
            - [ ] Format legality
    - [x] moving cards from one list to another (which is really just subtracting from one and appending to another)
    - [ ] Wishlists
        - [ ] generate report of current price outlays, per set/printing, constrained by condition, sorted by price, with links
        - [ ] Search for upcoming reprints–helpful with very expensive/old cards
            - Actually, this would be an interesting query to run for each new set coming out to see what could shift or what the chase cards could be
        - [ ] generate bulk data entry for TCGPlayer shopping
- Incorporate information from other card info sources:
    - [x] Scryfall API 
    - [x] Scryfall bulk data download
        - [x] actually, _only_ support bulk data download, don't even use the network API
        - [ ] migrations should update scryfall data that is out of date in the managed collection after a new bulk data download
        - [x] put it behind a local HTTP server so it doesn't have to be decoded on every invocation of the CLI
            - [ ] automatically start the HTTP server from `mtg-cli` if it's not already running?
            - [x] automate downloading bulk data dumps
            - [ ] automatically determine if local data is out of date and automatically download a newer version of it before spinning up the HTTP server (or even while it's running if it's daemonized?)
    - [ ] personal notes and tags/keywords
- [x] Allow multiple input CSVs
    - [x] Actually, don't do this. only allow one csv or one directory. this allows making the path argument optional, for operations that don't need a path argument, like `--migrate`
- [x] Handle folders of CSVs to process
- [x] Custom location of managed CSVs
- Translating between different services' card list formats
    - Export to CSV formats for other services/apps:
        - [ ] lion's eye iOS app
        - [ ] moxfield
        - [ ] archidekt
        - [ ] mtggoldfish
        - [ ] mtgdecks
        - [ ] edhrec
        - [ ] deckbox
        - [ ] tappedout
        - [ ] UrzaGatherer
    - Import
        - [ ] collectr
        - [ ] dragon shield mtg scanner
        - [ ] tcgfish
        - [ ] card binder
        - [ ] card castle 
        - [x] quantity / set code / card number
        - [x] moxfield exports, e.g.
            ```
            1 Alela, Cunning Conqueror (WOC) 3 *F*
            1 Arcane Denial (WOC) 84
            ```
- [x] Consolidate counts of duplicate entries (happens if you get the same card again later and scan it again)
    - [x] fix this, it only consolidates the current input, but needs to include previously recorded cards
- [x] Sort the rows in the CSV files by card name for better git diffing
- Logging improvements
    - [ ] Output progress indicators to stderr so they can be excluded from baseline log output from reprocessing script
    - [ ] and/or introduce log levels
    
## WONTDO

- Card search through base and constructed lists 
    - use [`ag`](https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher)/[`fzf`](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf)/[`yq`](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq)/[`sqlite`](https://stackoverflow.com/a/24582022) directly with the CSV files
